horton ran a study that looked at just
over 94 million pages across 10
ecommerce sites they found that website
conversions dropped by an average of
4.42
with each additional second of load time
between zero and five seconds that's
huge you can lose money by just having
poor low time hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm gonna break down how
to speed up your wordpress website in
just five steps
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
question for you how long does your
website take to load
if you don't know
put it into neilpatel.com
seo dash analyzer put in your url and
it'll show you how long your website
takes a look
i'm going to be focused on speed but if
you want to optimize your wordpress site
for seo i have another video that walks
you through the perfect seo setup for
wordpress with the eight best plugins
that you can use
the first thing that you want to do is
check your wordpress site speed that's
pretty much easy you can use uber says
to do that right you just go to the
neilpatel.com slash seo analyzer url seo
dash analyzer which you can see on the
screen here go to that put in your url
it'll tell you how long your web page
takes a load and it even tells you what
to do to fix it you should aim for a
load time of less than three seconds
here are some things that will slow down
your wordpress site
web hosting when your web hosting server
is not properly configured it can hurt
your website you want to make sure your
host is also fast
your wordpress configuration if your
wordpress configuration is not serving
cast pages that means a page has to load
up all over again even as the same page
that 100 other people viewed earlier
that day it can slow down your website
or make your website crash entirely
usually not with 100 visitors but if it
was a million definitely going to create
some issues
page size mainly images that aren't
optimized for the web
the bigger the images the longer they
take to load now you can compress the
image i'm not talking about the size and
shrink it down because bigger images
tend to do well and people like big
images but i'm talking about the file
size compress that down while
maintaining the quality
bad plug-ins if you're using poorly
coated plug-ins then you're gonna see a
slowdown in your site especially if you
have one too many plug-ins i see some
people's wordpresses and i log in i'm
like
holy crap this is like nascar
literally they have so many plugins it
can fill a nascar or formula one car
with them and people are just like wow
that's one too many plugins it is
because a lot of them do the same thing
over and over again
another thing to look at is external
scripts
how many of you have external scripts on
your wordpress site leave a comment
below with the scripts that you have
i'll give you one you'd probably use
google analytics but leave a comment
below with the rest of the scripts you
use
you probably don't need more than a
handful
the second thing that you'll want to do
is install some kind of cache plugin we
talked about this a little bit earlier
but if you don't use caching every time
someone goes to your website wordpress
needs to then generate that page
dynamically all over again don't do that
to your server be kind and nice to your
server when you start getting lots of
website visitors it'll save time it
won't overload your servers as much and
people will have a much better
experience that means
your wordpress system won't need to work
as heavily this can make your website
load anywhere from two to five times
faster that's a lot and if you want a
free plugin that does pretty well use wp
super cache
the third thing you need to do is
optimize your images
images and video content are really
heavy especially on mobile devices think
about it just because you have a 5g
phone doesn't mean you have 5g reception
so compress them and i'm about to
release a wordpress plugin with ubersys
that does this all for you automatically
so you don't even have to do it
if you want early access to it just let
me know in the comments below the fourth
thing and it's almost mandatory is use a
cdn a cdn is a content delivery network
just think about the neil patel website
it's hosted in the united states but did
you know that if you pull up my website
from india it actually gets pulled up
from a site that's in india or server
more so that's in india that's a cdn
that's a content delivery network it's
taking my files from my site even though
they're hosting the united states and
putting them in servers all over the
world
that way if you're coming from india
brazil italy it's pinging the closest
server to pull up that data and you can
use tools like cloudflare for this and a
lot of the hosts that you use
also offer cdns
and the last one for you is lazy loading
think about this if you have long
content let's say 5 000 or 10 000 words
you don't want to have to load the whole
page before someone can read the content
you want to load section by section as
quick as possible so people can start
reading and as they're reading
more information gets loaded up
and that's what's cool about lazy
loading and i found that in regions that
don't have the best internet connection
when we started using lazy loading for
our visitors that way people can get
access to the content faster it
decreased our bounce rates in these
countries that didn't have the best
internet connection by around six
percent that's huge
six percent by just using lazy loading
plug-in
if you need help speeding up your site
and optimizing for seo check out my ad
agency np digital if you have any
questions concerns comments leave a
comment below i'm here to help if you
enjoy the video like it share it tell
the people about it thank you for
watching